Devin Trejo
Notes for Computer Intrusion 20160411

# Peer to Peer Networks
Implemented using Bittorrent Protocol. Popular older resources are Napster
and/or downloading media from internet. Today it is used for Windows Updates
and overlay networks. The number of hops in a strucuted P2P networks
`O(logN)`. The nodes are stored in a distributed hash tabe (DHT). 

# Distributed Hash Table
- Each node has an IPv4 address and a Port number. 

| Node # | IPv4 Address | Hash of IP and Port # |
|:---:|:---:|:---:|
| 1 | ip1 | hash1=37 |
| 2 | ip2 | hash2=46 |
| 3 | ip3 | hash3=18 |
| 4 | ip4 | hash4=26 |
| 5 | ip5 | hash5=30 |

We plot the network on a circle:

```
    
       2^m-1 (where m=7 or the max length of the hash)
       0
       |
       _  A(18), B(26)
     / | \ C(30)
96--|--|--|---32
     \ | / D(37)
       _ E(46)
       |
       64

Identification Circle 
```
We can create the `lookup(key)` function. 

## Chord Implementation
- SHA-1 node IP
- 2^160 points max on ID circle
- Each node has a successor pointer and a predecessor pointer. 
    - Ex. the next like node -> <IP, node ID>
- concept of `sucessor pointer (key)` returns ID of next live node. 
- Also each node will maintain a routing table resolve lookups faster. 
They typically contain M number of entires. For SHA-1 with 2^160 possible
entries our routing table will likely be 160 entries. Routing table is 
created by first running successor in following order until you have the 
required number of entires:
    - n+1
    - n+2
    - n+2^2
    - n+2^2
    - ...

If you join the network you as a new node:
1. Compute node ID (n)
2. Contact any existing node (n') and ask that node to callback letting 
the new node it successor (n_s). 
3. Make the new node's successor be (n_s). Make the predecessor be (n') and
update the other nodes to acklowdege the new node (n).

Also note the opposite behavior when a node leaves. For nodes leaving we need
to account for the data that is lost on that node. Information is therefore
redundant and spread across X number of successor nodes. 

## Pastry
- Very similar to chord. 
- Proximity Matrix constructed using a tools like traceroute
- Comparison of hash values. Use a base b digits. b=16 for example. 

# FreeNet
We want to distribute a large amount of data objects across a network. 
- Random key for each data object that is uniformly distributed. 
- Store object using `put(key<hash>, data-object)`

Suppose the 6 node network
```      
                E
              / 
        A -- B 
         \    \ 
          C    F -- D
```

Suppose A has a data-object <key, data-object>. D wants to get the object
but doesn't know where it is. D will first issue a `get(key)` generating 
the key from the known data-object it knows it wants. D will then send the
request to its neighbors. Since F doesn't have the object it to will forward
the request. Eventually the request gets to A and A will respond to D. Along
the way there is a Stack keeping track of the path to D. 